# binf6110-assignment-1

## Introduction
Bacterial genome assembly has been recognized as an essential milestone for researching a variety of prokaryotic species (Land et al., 2015).  Since 1995, advancements over three generations of DNA sequencing have greatly illustrated the improvements in information for genomic studies, including time, cost, and public genome library sizes for a variety of bacteria (Land et al., 2015).  The most predominant approach for constructing bacterial genomes has often been de novo assembly of raw reads, with different methods being introduced over time based on their length, either short, long, or a combination of both (Zhang et al., 2021).  Historically, short-read sequencing, like Illumina, was used primarily to assemble genomes using sample libraries often prepared from amplification (Zhang et al., 2021).  However, while these techniques still continue to be used today and are the most accurate, their limitations mainly prevent them from being viable for complete assembly of much more complex genomes (Zhang et al., 2021).  Today, the emergence of new long-read sequencing techniques, especially Oxford Nanopore Technologies (ONT), have been instrumental in reshaping the pace and effectiveness of genome assembly with several more base pairs per read (Sereika et al., 2022).  ONT R10, in particular, has been most recently useful (Sereika et al., 2022) for assembling consensus genome sequences that almost reach completion, without using short reads (Sereika et al., 2022).  Other long-read techniques, like PacBio, have also been key for assembling prokaryotic sequences, especially when working with the 16S rRNA gene (Buetas et al., 2024).  Despite these advancements, though, they also introduce some key limitations of their own, especially in clinical applications, including accuracy in distinguishing genetic variants, expensive “cost per base”, and data quality (Oehler et al., 2023).  As such, it is necessary to evaluate how different long-read techniques can be used to assemble accurate consensus genomes and align them to a reference genome.

## Proposed Methods

## References
